bonus yen I personally would ask you do
you think culture dictates morality
like I like it come on expect both
explicitly and implicitly a large part
of what we deal with in veganism are
questions of cultural change how do you
stimulate a change in modern Western
culture so it's interesting that so many
vegans deal with it so poorly when
they're taken out of the the familiar
confines of Western culture and you know
or just challenged by saying hey what
about Aboriginal Australian culture what
about indigenous culture here are their
what about a contrast between more than
one particular type of culture we should
be totally self confident and
comfortable in dealing with these
questions but it seems that many of us
are not now I have addressed this on the
channel before a relatively popular
video on my channel ie
popular when you consider how obscure
and specific the subject matter is was
titled quote stop treating Native
Americans like infants close quote and
that video which you can look up I'm
gonna say it's it's impressive that over
2,000 people watched it because this is
a really specific question that I think
only would be asked within the vegan
movement but vegan activist thinking
about how they can broach and cope with
these ideas and these challenges how
they can deal with challenges when they
either come from white Western people
offering the traditions of indigenous
peoples as a justification for modern
white Western people just continuing
what's traditional for them also but how
do you deal with it when these questions
comments or complaints come from people
who are themselves members of indigenous
minority cultures whether in the United
States Canada or in this case Australia
we don't have expansion yeah
honey to make that choice a
constitutional necessary value judgment
on things that made necessary me like
part of a culture like my mother country
teachers called Gina and it's like an
important part of their culture bit they
realized like becoming a patandjill in
English be respectfully and they hated
it like once you judgment on that and
when they can't make that choice to like
have it be a meeting or like incentive
they'll tell those people that they're
necessarily worthless because you
complement as with every single question
that Joey took from the audience in this
video my reply my answer if I had been
there if I have been the one doing the
Q&A session is completely utterly
different not just in terms of style but
also in terms of substance when this
particular student challenges me if
hypothetically if I'm the one taking the
the question that a vegan diet is a
privilege I would absolutely embrace
that fact I would say yes it is a
privilege washing your hands with soap
and water is a privilege brushing your
teeth with a toothbrush and toothpaste
is a privilege and I hope that you with
your tribe with your hometown wherever
it is you come from as an indigenous
person because this person identifies as
connected to some and digital indigenous
group of people within Australia I hope
all of your people have access to soap
and toothpaste and toothbrushes even
though it's utterly alien
it's your tradition and in fact if
either the government or the free market
is feeling to provide your people with
access to soap and water hygiene the
real basic fundamental benefits of
science that modern Western civilization
now it takes for granted
I think that would be a travesty and I
would get up on my soapbox and get
articles in the newspaper saying hey
here's this group of people whether
they're on a native Reservation in
Canada or in maybe Northwest Australia
or something here's a group of people
who don't even have even have access to
soap and toothpaste this is terrible
this is unspeakable so yes it is a
privilege yes it's something that's the
the product of scientific progress in
recent centuries and it's something
we're discussing here and now with
reference to the future I think it's
very important in all these discussions
to shift them towards an aesthetic of
Futurity I'm not gonna sit here and
debate with you what I would do if I
were born 500 years ago or 1000 years
ago when technologically in many cases
there were no substitutes for for
example leather today leather is
completely obsolete but certainly an
argument to be made that one thousand
years ago was impossible to have an
entirely vegan society because of the
ways in which civilizations relied on
the exploitation of animals for labour
and for these kinds of raw materials but
regardless whether or not it was
possible 1,000 years ago it was
desirable and today it's not just
desirable it's attainable and yes I'd
like you and your people in the next
1000 years to join in the benefits of
this the same way I'm inviting you to
and join in using soap toothbrushes
toothpaste and so on this is a positive
sign document in relation to challenges
to cultural traditions for all of us
even within Europe when people first
encountered the technology of soap it
was a challenge to our cultural
traditions people first encountered
toothpaste and when people first learned
that tobacco was terrible for them and
there's two waves of that when they
first encountered tobacco that's it
that's recorded history and then when
they discovered the tobacco wasn't good
for your health it had no medicinal
properties that was actually terrible
for yourself these were these were all
challenges to cultural tradition one
after another we live in an era with
changing attitudes towards tobacco
changing attitudes towards alcohol and
yes fundamentally changing attitudes
towards meat agriculture animal ethics
ecology etc these are things are
changing these are things we have to
question looking ahead to the future
these aren't value judgments on the past
and traditions of your people and
they're not really value judgments on
the past and tradition of my people I
used to study Korean a Jib way at First
Nations University Canada where
sometimes everybody else in the room was
indigenous except me you know there were
a couple white people I have no Native
American ancestry but you know I'd be
certain of these people remember at one
point I said to somebody
came up spontaneously conversation I
said you know you do realize that my
people also used to hunt with bows and
arrows like they would be talking about
these things as if it were a unique
problem or unique legacy or a unique
ethical burden they were dealing with in
their culture alone it's like no the
history of England also was built on
hunting and specifically archery archery
is a huge part of the cultural tradition
and so on in England you know these are
also you know traditions where we had to
adapt and you know they were once a huge
huge part of our identity all right this
is sort of the positive side of it now
the negative side is because with these
types of discussions about culture the
selection of examples is is really very
important it's to look at example like
circumcision circumcision is not unique
to Judaism it's not unique to Islam it's
not unique to the monotheistic religions
the Aboriginal people of Australia have
horrifying traditions of male
circumcision truly horrifying and the
same type of language employed by this
question here the same type of rhetoric
can be used to justify male circumcision
as a cultural tradition right this is
most basic terrifying unforgiveable
thing of you know mutilating the
genitals of a newborn baby or a young
child right it can be justified in the
same way should it be justified will it
be justified
isn't it a very different thing to
rationalize it when looking back
historically and say well why did our
people do this in the past why did this
group of people do this in the best and
today here and now to try to rationalize
it and enforce it on children looking
forward in the name of tradition right
yes the discovery of modern medical
science is a challenge to these
traditions but one of the worst ways you
can evade the implications of modernity
of rational and scientific thinking is
precisely to try to offer excuses for
tradition in the guise of scientific
reasoning and that's going on within
Judaism Christianity and Islam now for
more than a century
people trying to claim that circumcision
can be carried out for hygienic reasons
for medical reasons that it's a
legitimate form of surgery or medical
procedure and it's not it's not a
legitimate medical procedure it's not
even a legitimate form of cosmetic
surgery this is something that removes
about 50% of the nerve endings and the
penis this is something that does
permanent physical damage to infants and
that can only be justified by appealing
to a mode of magical superstitious
reasoning that people today rightly feel
ashamed of yeah so within Australia for
the Aboriginal people of Australia they
look back at their history and they have
this truly nightmare-inducing tradition
of male circumcision you can google it
if you want to you might prefer not to
it's horrifying to behold what their
circumcision tradition entails they had
a long history of this and the question
is today should this not merely be part
of the past but should this be part of
the present in the future ok so this is
a challenge to ethical assumptions that
every culture in the world has to deal
with we all have to take responsibility
for the decisions we're making here and
now with the access to information that
we have here and now but what could be
more absurd what could be more
hypocritical and indeed what could be
more evil than to say that refusing
circumcision that to live without
circumcision is merely a form of white
privilege that casts aspersions and
casts a negative judgment on an
indigenous tradition and by the same
token what could be more absurd than
saying using hand soap using toothpaste
using toothbrushes that this is merely a
form of white cultural imperialism
that's going to make indigenous people
feel ashamed of their own traditions of
their own traditional lifestyles what
could be more absurd than making the
excuse for eating meat than to claim as
this young man claims
that this is part of their traditional
culture and how dare you how dare you
hold up a contrast between that
indigenous tradition and frankly an
outside set of influences and ideas I'm
gonna take a moment here to answer a
hypothetical objection to this video and
it's hypothetical objection I'm unlikely
to get because I've already made so many
other videos stating what my political
position on indigenous culture is First
Nations culture First Nations languages
the Cree in the edge it's error within
Canada especially but it's an issue I've
dealt with in Cambodia Laos even Taiwan
a lot of these countries do have the
problem of colonized indigenous native
minority people definitely where I was
just living in Yunnan fascinating an
important area of politics in the 21st
century that I care about passionately
but someone might object if this the
first video they'd ever seen in my
channel someone might hypothetically
object do you see nothing positive in
these indigenous cultures do you see
nothing worth saving in native
traditions and of course you could ask
the same thing about Judaism do I see
nothing worth saving in Judaism just
because circumcision is bad my answer to
that is twofold one when you think of
culture do you think of a weakness or a
strength I'm dead serious really think
about it is your culture something
holding you back is it dead weight is it
a burden you're gonna place on the
shoulders of the next generation is it
something bad and shameful and awkward
or is it something that actually makes
your life more meaningful more wonderful
I mean look at homophobia almost every
culture in the world not all almost all
were intensely homophobic up until just
a few decades ago and this had to be
challenged and you know what's
interesting people thought that was a
straw
people really thought having an
intensely homophobic culture that
celebrated a certain narrow idea of
masculinity made them strong made them
tough need them better as a people and
that's been challenged in just the last
few decades and know we can have a
culture that's warm and tolerant and
accepting of homosexuals in a broad
range of sexual identity expressions
sort of sexual orientations and we can
still be as tough as we want to be you
know we can still win at the Olympic
Games or fight pointless Wars and drop
bombs all over the world whatever you
can butch it up as much as you want
within a non homophobic paradigm instead
of but people really thought that was a
strength and it was a big change in our
way of thinking was a big change in our
cultural paradigm to see that instead as
a weakness all right so it's tough to
think about these things that way it's
tough to think is circumcision a
strength or weakness old old pseudo
scientific ideas handed down from your
grandmother about health and hygiene and
medicine all kinds of cultural
traditions over the world maybe it makes
you feel strong to carry on this
tradition eating something that turns
out to be poisonous the people used to
think was a medicine you know doing all
kinds of thing is this a weakness or a
strength and then point to is if you're
going to go through that cultural
tradition and engage in cherry-picking
if you're gonna engage in the cynical
selection of some elements of that
cultural tradition to be preserved as
millions of Christians do they leaf
through the Bible and they cherry-pick
the elements of biblical Christianity
that they want to preserve the 21st
century and the elements that either
want to rationalize make excuses for or
simply ignore if there's something worth
saving
in Judaism or a Native American culture
or Aboriginal strong culture it's not
it's not going to be circumcision is it
it's not going to be slavery is it it's
not going to be the status of women or
the status of homosexuals and any of
these culture traditions
is it so given that we're cynically
engaged in scrutinizing these traditions
to select what's in and what's out by a
21st century standard can we now start
to engage in an honest and open and
discussion of to what extent animal
sacrifice hunting and meat-eating belong
in the dustbin of history along with
homophobia and the other oppressive
elements of that traditional culture one
discard and to what extent it's going to
belong in the 21st century
evolution